A *snapshot* is a copy of the user, system and configuration data stored by *snapd* for one or more snaps on your system.

Snapshots are generated manually with the `snap save` command and automatically when a snap is removed (requires _snapd 2.39+_). A snapshot can be used to backup the state of your snaps, revert snaps to a previous state and to restore a fresh snapd installation to a previously saved state.

Snapshots require snap version _2.37+_. 

## Generating a snapshot

The `snap save` command creates a snapshot for all installed snaps, or if declared individually, specific snaps:

```
$ sudo snap save
Set  Snap                     Age    Version               Rev   Size   Notes
30   core                     1.00s  16-2.37~pre1          6229   250B  -
30   core18                   886ms  18                    543    123B  -
30   go                       483ms  1.10.7                3092   387B  -
30   vlc                      529ms  3.0.6                 770   882kB  -
```

Each snapshot has a unique ID, or revision, shown in the *Set* column above. This value is unique to each *save* operation, regardless of the number of snaps it includes. *Age* is the period of time since the snapshot was created, while *Version* and *Rev* refer to the specific snap at the time of the snapshot. *Size* is the amount of storage used by a snapshot. 
`
> ⓘ  If you'd rather not wait for the *save* operation to complete before regaining access to your terminal, add the `--no-wait` argument.

You can see the state of your system's snapshots with the `snap saved` command. Adding `--id=<set/unique ID>` allows you to query a specific snapshot:

```
$ snap saved --id=29
Set  Snap                     Age    Version               Rev   Size   Notes
29   vlc                      2h41m  3.0.6                 770   882kB  -
```

## Verifying a snapshot

To verify the integrity of a snapshot, use the `check-snapshot` command:

```
$ snap check-snapshot 30
Snapshot #30 verified successfully.
```

## Restoring a snapshot

The `restore` command replaces the current user, system and configuration data with the corresponding data from the specified snapshot:

```
$ snap restore 30
Restored snapshot #30.
```

By default, this command restores all the data for all the snaps in a snapshot. You can restore data for specific snaps by simply listing them after the command, and for specific users with the `--users=<usernames>` argument.

Excluding a snap's system and configuration data from *snap restore* is not currently possible. 

## Deleting a snapshot

The `forget` command deletes a snapshot. This operation removes a snapshot from local storage and can not be undone:

```
$ snap forget 30
Snapshot #30 forgotten.
$ snap saved --id=30
No snapshots found for that ID.
```

By default, this command deletes all the data for all the snaps in a snapshot. You can delete the data for specific snaps by listing them after the command.

<h2 id=`heading--automatic-snapshots`>Automatic snapshots</h2>

Apart from on [Ubuntu Core](https://www.ubuntu.com/core) devices, where the feature is disabled by default, a snapshot is generated automatically when a snap is removed. These snapshots are retained for 31 days before being deleted automatically.

To see which snapshots are generated automatically,  look for `auto` in the *Notes* column output from *snap saved*:

```bash
$ snap saved
Set  Snap                     Age    Version               Rev   Size   Notes
30   go                       25d5h  1.10.7                3092   387B  -
30   vlc                      25d0h  3.0.6                 770   882kB  -
31   vlc                      529ms  3.0.6                 770   882kB  auto
```

As with manual snapshots, automatically generated snapshots can be manually deleted with `snap forget <set-id>`.

Automatic snapshot retention time is configured with the `snapshots.automatic.retention` [system option](system-options.md). The value needs to be greater than 24 hours:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=30h
```

To disable automatic snapshots, set the retention time to `no`:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=no
```

> Disabling automatic snapshots will *not* affect pre-existing automatically generated snapshots, only those generated by the removal of subsequent snaps.

Automatic snapshots require snap version _2.39+_. 

## Snapshot anatomy

Snapshots are stored as a *zip* file for each snap, and each zip file contains the following:
- **meta.json**: describes the contents of the snapshot, alongside its configuration and checksums for the archives.
- **archive.tgz**: contains system data.
- **user/\<username>.tgz**: contains any user data (for each system user).

On Ubuntu-based systems, snapshots are stored in the `/var/lib/snapd/snapshots` directory.<br><hr><br><div class='footer'>For questions and comments see <a href='https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/snapshots/9468'>the forum topic</a>.