Snap supports a set of system-wide options that allow you to customise your snap environment.

As with [Configuration in snaps](configuration-in-snaps.md), these options are changed with the `set` and `get` commands, but with a target of  *system* instead of a specific snap:

```bash
$ snap set system some.option="some value"
$ snap get system some.option
````

Configuration options can be unset by either passing their names to the unset command or by 
adding an exclamation mark (!) to the end of an option name: (from _snapd 2.41+_):

```bash
$ snap unset system some.option
$ # or
$ snap set system some.option!
```



## Controlling refresh frequency

There are four system-wide options that are used to manage how updates are handed:

- **refresh.timer**: defines the refresh frequency and schedule
- **refresh.hold**: delays the next refresh until the defined time and date
- **refresh.metered**: pauses refresh updates when network connection is metered
- **refresh.retain**: sets how many revisions of a snap are stored on the system

See [Controlling updates](managing-updates.md#heading--controlling-updates) for further details on how the above options are used.

## proxy.{http,https,ftp}

These options may be set to change the proxies to be used by the system when communicating with external sites that speak the respective protocols.

Available since snapd 2.28.

## service.ssh.disable

May be set to _true_ for disabling the SSH service at startup.

Available since snapd 2.22.

## system.power-key-action

Defines the behaviour of the system when the power key is pressed.

May be set to one of:

* ignore
* poweroff
* reboot
* halt
* kexec
* suspend
* hibernate
* hybrid-sleep
* lock

Available since snapd 2.23.


<h2 id='heading--snapshots-automatic-retention'>snapshots.automatic.retention</h2>

[Automatic snapshot](snapshots.md) retention time is configured with the `snapshots.automatic.retention` system option. The default value is 31 days, and the value needs to be greater than 24 hours:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=30h
```

To disable automatic snapshots, set the retention time to `no`:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=no
```

> Disabling automatic snapshots will *not* affect pre-existing automatically generated snapshots, only those generated by subsequent snap removals.

Automatic snapshots require snap version _2.39+_. 

## pi-config

On a Raspberry Pi, the following options set corresponding values in the _config.txt_ system configuration file:

  * pi-config.disable-overscan
  * pi-config.framebuffer-width
  * pi-config.framebuffer-height
  * pi-config.framebuffer-depth
  * pi-config.framebuffer-ignore_alpha
  * pi-config.overscan-left
  * pi-config.overscan-right
  * pi-config.overscan-top
  * pi-config.overscan-bottom
  * pi-config.overscan-scale
  * pi-config.display-rotate
  * pi-config.hdmi-group
  * pi-config.hdmi-mode
  * pi-config.hdmi-drive
  * pi-config.avoid-warnings
  * pi-config.gpu-mem-256
  * pi-config.gpu-mem-512
  * pi-config.gpu-mem

Further details on the above, see the [official Raspberry Pi documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/config-txt/).<br><hr><br><div class='footer'>For questions and comments see <a href='https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/system-options/87'>the forum topic</a>.